Documentation/src/main/asciidoc/text/Basics.asciidoc, before:

[[starting_up]]

:author: Andrzej Wójcik
:date: 2016-06-15 13:03

:toc:

= Basics

== Create XMPP client instance
To use TigaseSwift library you need to create instance of `XMPPClient` class which is implementation of XMPP client.
[source,swift]
----
var client = XMPPClient();
----

== Register required modules
Next step is to register modules providing support for features you would like to use.
Almost in any case you will need at least following modules:

- `StreamFeaturesModule`
+
Responsible for handling XMPP stream features

- `AuthModule` and `SaslModule`
+
`AuthModule` add common authentication features, while `SaslModule` add support for SASL based authentication.

- `ResourceBinderModule`
+
Module responsible for resource binding which is part of stream negotiation process.

- `SessionEstablishmentModule`
+
Module handles session establishment which is last step of stream negotiation, however it is not needed according to http://xmpp.org/rfcs/rfc6120.html[RFC 6120].
We recommend to register this module for compatibility reasons - if it will be not needed then it will not be used.

To register, ie. `StreamFeaturesModule` you need to use following code:
[source,swift]
----
client.modulesManager.register(StreamFeaturesModule());
----

== Register additional modules you need
You can add any additional modules found in TigaseSwift library or you can create your own based by implementing support for `XmppModule` protocol.

Here is list of some modules provided by TigaseSwift library:

- `PresenceModule`
+
Responsible for handling incoming presences and allows to set client presence.

- `MessageModule`
+
This module is responsible for processing incoming messages, creating/destroying chats and sending messages.

- `RosterModule`
+
Provides support for retrieval and manipulation of XMPP roster.

- `MucModule`
+
Provides support for MUC rooms as described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0045.html[XEP-0045: Multi-User Chat]

- `DiscoveryModule`
+
Provides support for service discovery described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0030.html[XEP-0030: Service Discovery]

- `StreamManagementModule`
+
Provides support for Stream Management acking and stream resumption as specified in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0198.html[XEP-0198: Stream Management]

- `MessageCarbonsModule`
+
Adds support for forwarding messages delivered to other resources as described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0280.html[XEP-0280: Message Carbons]

- `VCardModule`
+
Implementation of support for http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0054.html[XEP-0054: vcard-temp]

- `PingModule`
+
Allows to check if other XMPP client is available and it is possible to deliver packet to this XMPP client as specified in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0199.html[XEP-0199: XMPP Ping]

- `InBandRegistrationModule`
+
Adds possibility to register XMPP account using http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0077.html[XEP-0077: In-Band Registration]

- `MobileModeModule`
+
Provides support for using Tigase Optimizations for mobile devices

== Provide credentials needed for authentication
This should be done using `connectionConfiguration` properties, ie.
[source,swift]
----
let userJID = BareJID("user@domain.com");
client.connectionConfiguration.setUserJID(userJID);
client.connectionConfiguration.setUserPassword("Pa$$w0rd");
----

== Register for connection related events
There are three event related to connection state which should be handled:

- `SocketConnector.ConnectedEvent`
+
Fired when client opens TCP connection to server - XMPP stream is not ready at this point.

- `SessionEstablishmentModule.SessionEstablishmentSuccessEvent`
+
Fired when client finishes session establishment. It will be called even if `SessionEstablishmentModule` is not registered.

- `SocketConnector.DisconnectedEvent`
+
Fired when TCP connection is closed or when XMPP stream is closed. It will be also called when TCP connection is broken.

== Login
To start process of DNS resolution, establishing TCP connection and establishing XMPP stream you need to call:
[source,swift]
----
client.login();
----

== Disconnect
To disconnect from server properly and close XMPP and TCP connection you need to call:
[source,swift]
----
client.disconnect();
----

== Sending custom stanza
Usually class which supports `XmppModule` protocol is being implemented to add new feature to `TigaseSwift` library.
However in some cases in which we want to send simple stanza or send stanza and react on received response there is no need to implement class supporting `XmppModule` protocol.
Instead of that following methods may be used.

=== Sending stanza without waiting for response
To send custom stanza you need to construct this stanza and execute following code
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza);
----
`writer` is instance of `PacketWriter` class responsible for sending stanzas from client to server.
Property can be nil if connection is not established.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (closures)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, onSuccess: {(response) in
    // response received with type equal `result`
  }, onError: {(response, errorCondition) in
    // received response with type equal `error`
  }, onTimeout: {
    // no response was received in specified time
  });
----
You can omit `timeout` parameter. Default value of 30 seconds will be used as a timeout.

You can pass nil as any of closures. In this case particular response will not trigger any reaction.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (closure)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, callback: {(response) in
  // will be called on `result`, `error` or in case of timeout
  });
----
You can omit `timeout` parameter, which will use 30 seconds as default timeout.

As callback is called always as it will be called in case of received `result`, `error` or in case of timeout it is required to be able to distinguish what caused execution of this closure.
In case of `result` or `error` packet being received, received stanza will be passed to closure for processing. However in case of timeout `nil` will be passed instead of stanza - as no stanza was received.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (AsyncCallback)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, callback: callback);
----
where callback is implementation of `AsyncCallback` protocol.

You can omit `timeout` parameter, which will use 30 seconds as default timeout.

Commit message:

Task #4247 - added mention about support for Entity Capabilities in documentation

Documentation/src/main/asciidoc/text/Basics.asciidoc, after:

[[starting_up]]

:author: Andrzej Wójcik
:date: 2016-06-15 13:03

:toc:

= Basics

== Create XMPP client instance
To use TigaseSwift library you need to create instance of `XMPPClient` class which is implementation of XMPP client.
[source,swift]
----
var client = XMPPClient();
----

== Register required modules
Next step is to register modules providing support for features you would like to use.
Almost in any case you will need at least following modules:

- `StreamFeaturesModule`
+
Responsible for handling XMPP stream features

- `AuthModule` and `SaslModule`
+
`AuthModule` add common authentication features, while `SaslModule` add support for SASL based authentication.

- `ResourceBinderModule`
+
Module responsible for resource binding which is part of stream negotiation process.

- `SessionEstablishmentModule`
+
Module handles session establishment which is last step of stream negotiation, however it is not needed according to http://xmpp.org/rfcs/rfc6120.html[RFC 6120].
We recommend to register this module for compatibility reasons - if it will be not needed then it will not be used.

To register, ie. `StreamFeaturesModule` you need to use following code:
[source,swift]
----
client.modulesManager.register(StreamFeaturesModule());
----

== Register additional modules you need
You can add any additional modules found in TigaseSwift library or you can create your own based by implementing support for `XmppModule` protocol.

Here is list of some modules provided by TigaseSwift library:

- `PresenceModule`
+
Responsible for handling incoming presences and allows to set client presence.

- `MessageModule`
+
This module is responsible for processing incoming messages, creating/destroying chats and sending messages.

- `RosterModule`
+
Provides support for retrieval and manipulation of XMPP roster.

- `MucModule`
+
Provides support for MUC rooms as described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0045.html[XEP-0045: Multi-User Chat]

- `DiscoveryModule`
+
Provides support for service discovery described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0030.html[XEP-0030: Service Discovery]

- `StreamManagementModule`
+
Provides support for Stream Management acking and stream resumption as specified in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0198.html[XEP-0198: Stream Management]

- `MessageCarbonsModule`
+
Adds support for forwarding messages delivered to other resources as described in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0280.html[XEP-0280: Message Carbons]

- `VCardModule`
+
Implementation of support for http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0054.html[XEP-0054: vcard-temp]

- `PingModule`
+
Allows to check if other XMPP client is available and it is possible to deliver packet to this XMPP client as specified in http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0199.html[XEP-0199: XMPP Ping]

- `InBandRegistrationModule`
+
Adds possibility to register XMPP account using http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0077.html[XEP-0077: In-Band Registration]

- `MobileModeModule`
+
Provides support for using Tigase Optimizations for mobile devices

- `CapabilitiesModule`
+
Provides support for http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0115.html[XEP-0115: Entity Capabilities] which allows for advertisement and automatic discovery of features supported by other clients.

== Provide credentials needed for authentication
This should be done using `connectionConfiguration` properties, ie.
[source,swift]
----
let userJID = BareJID("user@domain.com");
client.connectionConfiguration.setUserJID(userJID);
client.connectionConfiguration.setUserPassword("Pa$$w0rd");
----

== Register for connection related events
There are three event related to connection state which should be handled:

- `SocketConnector.ConnectedEvent`
+
Fired when client opens TCP connection to server - XMPP stream is not ready at this point.

- `SessionEstablishmentModule.SessionEstablishmentSuccessEvent`
+
Fired when client finishes session establishment. It will be called even if `SessionEstablishmentModule` is not registered.

- `SocketConnector.DisconnectedEvent`
+
Fired when TCP connection is closed or when XMPP stream is closed. It will be also called when TCP connection is broken.

== Login
To start process of DNS resolution, establishing TCP connection and establishing XMPP stream you need to call:
[source,swift]
----
client.login();
----

== Disconnect
To disconnect from server properly and close XMPP and TCP connection you need to call:
[source,swift]
----
client.disconnect();
----

== Sending custom stanza
Usually class which supports `XmppModule` protocol is being implemented to add new feature to `TigaseSwift` library.
However in some cases in which we want to send simple stanza or send stanza and react on received response there is no need to implement class supporting `XmppModule` protocol.
Instead of that following methods may be used.

=== Sending stanza without waiting for response
To send custom stanza you need to construct this stanza and execute following code
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza);
----
`writer` is instance of `PacketWriter` class responsible for sending stanzas from client to server.
Property can be nil if connection is not established.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (closures)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, onSuccess: {(response) in
    // response received with type equal `result`
  }, onError: {(response, errorCondition) in
    // received response with type equal `error`
  }, onTimeout: {
    // no response was received in specified time
  });
----
You can omit `timeout` parameter. Default value of 30 seconds will be used as a timeout.

You can pass nil as any of closures. In this case particular response will not trigger any reaction.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (closure)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, callback: {(response) in
  // will be called on `result`, `error` or in case of timeout
  });
----
You can omit `timeout` parameter, which will use 30 seconds as default timeout.

As callback is called always as it will be called in case of received `result`, `error` or in case of timeout it is required to be able to distinguish what caused execution of this closure.
In case of `result` or `error` packet being received, received stanza will be passed to closure for processing. However in case of timeout `nil` will be passed instead of stanza - as no stanza was received.

=== Sending stanza and waiting for response (AsyncCallback)
It possible to wait for response stanza, but only in case of `Iq` stanzas.
To do so, you need to pass callback which will be called when result will be received, ie.
[source,swift]
----
client.context.writer?.write(stanza, timeout: 45, callback: callback);
----
where callback is implementation of `AsyncCallback` protocol.

You can omit `timeout` parameter, which will use 30 seconds as default timeout.
